# Structural Behavioral Economics (Della Vigna, Pope 2018) using Estimagic
## EPP for Economists Final Project, University of Bonn WS 21/22

## Authors
 - Edoardo Falchi
 - Nigar Valiyeva

## Abstract

> This project replicates part of the main results from [DellaVigna and Pope, 2018](https://doi.org/10.1093/restud/rdx033),
specifically focusing on structural estimates using non linear least squares (NLS). The
starting point from which we build upon our codes is the replication of the mentioned
paper by [Nunnari and Pozzi, 2021](https://github.com/MassimilianoPozzi/python_julia_structural_behavioral_economics)
from Bocconi University. Our goal is to improve on that by putting emphasis on programming best-practices and applying concepts learned
in the course "Effective Programming Practices for Economists", such as Pytask, Pytest,
[Estimagic (Gabler, 2021)](https://github.com/OpenSourceEconomics/estimagic), Sphinx, functional programming and docstrings.

## Getting started

For a local machine to run this project, it needs to have a Python and LaTex distribution.
The project was tested on Windows 10 operating system.

The project environment includes all the dependencies needed to run the project.

To run this project in a local machine:
 - after cloning the repo, open a terminal in the root directory of the project
and create and activate the environment typing `$ conda env create -f environment.yml` and `$ conda activate epp-final-project-team_behavioral` commands, respectively.
 - For imports to work, the following command should be typed to the terminal in the root directory of the terminal: `$ conda develop .`
 - To generate the output files that will be stored in `bld` folder, type `$ pytask` in the root directory of your terminal.

## Project structure

This project has been build based on [a template by von Gaudecker, 2019](https://econ-project-templates.readthedocs.io/en/stable/index.html).

`src` directory includes all the necessary code used in the analysis. To navigate through the folders, the workflow is decomposed as follows:
 - `original_data` contains the original data files used by the original authors, Della Vigna and Pope.
 - `data_management` contains the code to clean and for mat the data for the analysis.
 - `model_code` contains code for criterion functions used by different optimizers.
 - `analysis` includes the code for structural behavioral economics estimation.
 - `final` includes code to generate final tables and figures.
 - `paper` contains the LaTex files and task to generate the final project paper.
 - `documentation` generates pdf and html files for the documentaion of the project code.
 - The file `test_funcs.py` tests the functions in `model_code`.
 - The file `test_nls_data.py` tests the generated data against the data generated by Pozzi and Nunnari.

